Post a new en blog (#109)
vivliostyle/vivliostyle.org: _posts/2022-01-24-JavaScript-can-now-be-used-in-typesetting-by-Vivliostyle.md

One of the most significant advantages is the availability of Web font services that use JavaScript. In general, there are three ways to load Web fonts (examples of the corresponding service names are in parentheses):

1. How to load fonts from the net with `@font-face`.
2. How to load via external style sheets with `@import` or `link` elements (DynaFont, Google Fonts, etc.).
3. How to load using JavaScript (DynaFont, Adobe Fonts, TypeSquare, FONTPLUS, etc.).

One of the bottlenecks in using web fonts is that the speed at which the fonts load depends on the speed of the network. This tends to slow down the display process. This problem is more pronounced with CJK fonts, which have larger character sets. However, if you use method 3 above, you can speed up the loading process by using JavaScript to load the target HTML and create a subset that extracts only the necessary characters (dynamic subset).

In other words, if you want to use web fonts in Chinese, Japanese, or Korean, the above 3 methods can be very effective. However, Vivliostyle has not been able to support this until now.

## How to use web fonts with JavaScript in Vivliostyle CLI

> A test sample of each Web font service actually used with Vivliostyle Viewer is available below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Test samples of each Web font service actually used with Vivliostyle Viewer is available below:
```

- [Test samples of each Web font service](https://github.com/vivliostyle/vivliostyle.js/issues/735#issuecomment-1006275491)

By the way, some web font services require domain registration (registration of the site to be used) as a condition of use. On the other hand, Vivliostyle CLI has been using the file protocol to load HTML documents. However, the file protocol does not allow for domain registration. So, in this update, we added a new option to load with http protocol. Specifically, it can be used as follows:

> 1. Register `http://localhost:13000` as a domain name with a web font service in advance (see below for the differences between each company).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Register `http://localhost:13000` as a site to be used with web fonts to the web font service in advance (see below for the differences between each company).
```

> 2. Run with the option `--http`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Run Vivliostyle CLI with the option `--http`.
```

### TypeSquare

Register a “domain name” that does not include `https://`, etc. To use the Vivliostyle CLI with the `--http` option, register `localhost`.

### DynaFont

Domain registration is a requirement for use, but localhost can be used without domain registration. Please refer to their FAQ below (The original text is in Japanese, but we have translated it into English below):

- [Q: Can I use Web fonts in my local environment?<i class="fas fa-external-link-alt"></i>](https://www.dynacw.co.jp/support/support_faq_detail.aspx?qid=456&fcid=223)

> Answer: In response to the demand for developing in a local environment, DynaFont Online allows you to display web fonts on a local server. By setting up a local server on your PC and placing the target HTML and CSS files in the localhost folder, you can access `https://localhost/` from your browser to display the web fonts.

## Other benefits of JavaScript support

The benefits of JavaScript support are not limited to web fonts. Various JavaScript libraries that are widely available today, such as the following libraries, can now be used in Vivliostyle:

> - [Make score “VexTab”<i class="fas fa-external-link-alt"></i>](http://vexflow.com/vextab/tutorial.html)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Make music scores “VexTab”<i class="fas fa-external-link-alt"></i>](http://vexflow.com/vextab/tutorial.html)
```

    - [Testing with Vivliostyle Viewer](https://vivliostyle.vercel.app/#src=https://raw.githack.com/0xfe/vextab/master/doc/tutorial.html)
- [Make charts “Charts.js”<i class="fas fa-external-link-alt"></i>](https://www.chartjs.org/)
    - [Testing with Vivliostyle Viewer](https://vivliostyle.vercel.app/#src=https://raw.githack.com/zopyx/print-css-rocks/master/lessons/lesson-chart-js/index.html)

## Conclusion

> This article provides a brief summary of the JavaScript support in this update. For more detailed information, please refer to the following Issue:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This article provides a brief summary of the JavaScript support in this update. For more detailed information, please refer to the following issues:
```

### TypeSquare

Register a “domain name” that does not include `https://`, etc. To use the Vivliostyle CLI with the `--http` option, register `localhost`.

### DynaFont

Domain registration is a requirement for use, but localhost can be used without domain registration. Please refer to their FAQ below (The original text is in Japanese, but we have translated it into English below):

- [Q: Can I use Web fonts in my local environment?<i class="fas fa-external-link-alt"></i>](https://www.dynacw.co.jp/support/support_faq_detail.aspx?qid=456&fcid=223)

> Answer: In response to the demand for developing in a local environment, DynaFont Online allows you to display web fonts on a local server. By setting up a local server on your PC and placing the target HTML and CSS files in the localhost folder, you can access `https://localhost/` from your browser to display the web fonts.

Note: To use DynaFont's web font service “DynaFont Online”, you need to have an address in Japan. See the FAQ below for details.

- [Q: Can foreign companies sign up for this service?<i class="fas fa-external-link-alt"></i>](https://dfo.dynacw.co.jp/support/support_faq_detail.aspx?qid=488&fcid=231)

> > Answer: Yes, only domestic companies can sign up. However, editing work can be done outside of Japan.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Answer: Only domestic companies can sign up. However, editing work can be done outside of Japan.
```
